CT475 Assignment 1 Description: Sept 2018

Due Date: 8 Oct 2018

The goal of this assignment is to learn the basics of using a machine learning package for a classification task, and to prepare a short report demonstrating how you have applied it.

Details (with the maximum marks for each aspect of your work):

    
	Look into what open-source machine learning packages are available, and select one that you think will be appropriate for this task. Your report should include a brief justification for your choice and overview of the main features of the package you have chosen. [4 marks max.]

	I will supply a dataset (see below). You will probably need to do some work to prepare it for input into the ML package, depending on the package’s requirements. Document any data preparation steps in your report. [2]
    
	In the ML package, select two different classification algorithms that you will apply to the dataset to learn two different classification models. One of these should be one that we have already covered in lectures (ID3/C4.5 or kNN) while the other should be completely different from those we have already covered. In your report, include a clear description of both algorithms. Ensure that you acknowledge all of your sources of information. [3x2 = 6]
    
	In the ML package, perform 10-fold cross-validation to estimate the likely future performance of each classification model. Report on the results. Also include details of the classification models constructed – these may include graphics if appropriate. [3x2 = 6]
    
	Discuss in your report whether the two models give very similar or significantly different results, and why. [2]

The dataset is in a file called “autoimmune.txt”. Columns are separated by commas and rows are separated by newlines. Each column describes one individual patient. The attributes are in rows in the following order: Age; Blood_Pressure; BMI; Plasma_level; Autoimmune_Disease; Adverse_events; Drug_in_serum; Liver_function; Activity_test; Secondary_test.

The goal of your classifier is to predict Autoimmune_Disease (which may be positive or negative) based on the other attributes.

Your report should not exceed four A4 pages in total. Therefore, take care to ensure that it is succinct and informative, and not overly superficial. This is an individual assignment. As you are all final year or postgraduate students, I will treat any plagiarism (from another student or other sources) very seriously.

You must submit your report as a single PDF file in Blackboard, on or before the due date Ensure your name, class and student ID are on it.

Your assignment will be marked out of 20, with the breakdown shown above. If any aspect of your work is plagiarised or is otherwise dishonest, you will receive 0 for the full assignment.

- Michael Madden.
